Proximal Policy Optimization Algorithms
John Schulman, Filip Wolski, Prafulla Dhariwal, Alec Radford, Oleg Klimov
OpenAI
{joschu, filip, prafulla, alec, oleg}@openai.com
Abstract
We propose a new family of policy gradient methods for reinforcement learning, which alternate between sampling data
through interaction with the environment, and optimizing a
“surrogate” objective function using stochastic gradient ascent. Whereas standard policy gradient methods perform one
gradient update per data sample, we propose a novel objective
function that enables multiple epochs of minibatch updates. The new methods, which we call
proximal policy optimization (PPO), have some of the benefits of trust region policy optimization (TRPO), but they are
much simpler to implement, more general, and have better sample
complexity (empirically). Our experiments test PPO on a collection of benchmark tasks, including simulated robotic
locomotion and Atari game playing, and we show that PPO outperforms
other online policy gradient methods, and overall strikes a favorable balance between sample
complexity, simplicity, and wall-time.
1 Introduction
In recent years, several different approaches have been proposed for reinforcement learning with
neural network function approximators. The leading contenders are deep Q-learning [Mni+15],
“vanilla” policy gradient methods [Mni+16], and trust region / natural policy gradient methods
[Sch+15b]. However, there is room for improvement in developing a method that is scalable (to
large models and parallel implementations), data efficient, and robust (i.e., successful on a variety
of problems without hyperparameter tuning). Q-learning (with function approximation) fails on
many simple problems1 and is poorly understood, vanilla policy gradient methods have poor data
effiency and robustness; and trust region policy optimization (TRPO) is relatively complicated,
and is not compatible with architectures that include noise (such as dropout) or parameter sharing
(between the policy and value function, or with auxiliary tasks).
This paper seeks to improve the current state of affairs by introducing an algorithm that attains
the data efficiency and reliable performance of TRPO, while using only first-order optimization.
We propose a novel objective with clipped probability ratios, which forms a pessimistic estimate
(i.e., lower bound) of the performance of the policy. To optimize policies, we alternate between
sampling data from the policy and performing several epochs of optimization on the sampled data.
Our experiments compare the performance of various different versions of the surrogate objective, and find that the
version with the clipped probability ratios performs best. We also compare
PPO to several previous algorithms from the literature. On continuous control tasks, it performs
better than the algorithms we compare against. On Atari, it performs significantly better (in terms
of sample complexity) than A2C and similarly to ACER though it is much simpler.